Now, how do we use actions and workflows?
Well, for that I'll go to my workflow file,
and now here in that lint job,
I wanna replace these two steps with my custom action.
To do this, I'll give it a name,
load and cache dependencies, for example.
And then we use the uses key,
just as we used it for actions before as well,
there is no difference regarding that
if you're using your own custom actions,
you still use the uses key.
Now, the value you define here
simply depends on where your custom action is stored.
If you did create your action as
a standalone GitHub Repository,
you would simply add your Repository Identifier here.
For example, Maxacademind1/my-action,
if my GitHub Repository name would be my action
and this would be my account name.
That's how I could refer to my own action
stored in my own GitHub Repository.
Here I have a local action though,
stored locally in this project,
and therefore what you pass as a value
to uses instead is a path to this action folder.
For that you start with ./ to construct a path
relative from the root project folder
and then we dive into the GitHub folder
and then into /actions in my case
since I named this folder, actions,
and then cached-deps is my other folder name.
You don't have to point at action.yml here,
this is not required because GitHub Actions
will automatically look for such a action.yml file.
As mentioned before, you must add such a action.yml file
to any custom action folder or repository you have.
And that's how we can use
our custom action in this workflow.
What's really important here
is that this path starts at the root level of this project,
It's not relative to the workflow definition file
as you could think,
instead, it's relative to the root folder of your project.
With that added, we should be able to create a new commit
where I say, added a first custom action
and then push this to GitHub.
With that, we should of course trigger a new workflow run,
and here we should see that in the linting job here,
because that's where I'm using this custom action,
here in the lint job.
That in here we are using this custom action,
and indeed we did.
Here, that is the custom action we used,
that step uses the custom action
and you see that it ran successfully
and it did use the cache here
and then therefore not install the dependencies again
because in custom action I have this if check
to only install dependencies
if they were not found in the cache yet,
which was not the case here,
here instead, the dependencies were restored from the cache.
But the most important thing is
that our custom action was used successfully.
With that, we can of course use that same step
in all the other jobs as well
and replace the two steps
where we cache and install the dependencies
with that one single action here.
And that also shows why composite actions are useful
because now this workflow file became simpler,
we got rid of some duplicate code,
some duplicate definition statements
and instead we're using this custom composite action.
With that, I'm going to create another commit
using custom action in all jobs,
and I will push this as well to trigger
another workflow execution, of course,
where now this custom action is used
in lint, test and build.
And still the overall workflow should finish successfully
because the custom action is used successfully.
Here we go, all jobs finished successfully.